chore(http): Delete "Digest" and "Want-Digest", improve digest pages (#36879)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/content-digest/index.md

title: Content-Digest
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Digest
page-type: http-header
spec-urls: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9530#section-2
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

> The HTTP **`Content-Digest`** {{Glossary("request header", "request")}} and {{Glossary("response header")}} provides a {{Glossary("digest")}} calculated using a hashing algorithm applied to the message content.

Reviewer: Not going to block merging, but given this is request and response, perhaps we should have an example or explanation of the case where the browser sends a digest?

Reviewer: Ditto for Repr

Author: That's a good one, I don't see that any browser has implemented this, so it's more for applications / clients. There's a good article here I found that shows a use case: 

https://developer.ebay.com/develop/guides/digital-signatures-for-apis

I suppose the server can verify that the client meant to transmit this based on what it receives:

```http
POST /bank_transfer HTTP/1.1
Host: example
Content-Digest: sha-256=:mEkc...

{
 "recipient": "Alex",
 "amount": 900000000
}
```

Author: added this in 3fb2b0fe883f5f50ce04c3f97a90e41dcac03f27

Author: > Ditto for Repr

Also added in 53c0a2a79c47441c577082096746e162cd1edbce

    The insecure (legacy) registered digest algorithms are: `md5`, `sha` (SHA-1), `unixsum`, `unixcksum`, `adler` (ADLER32) and `crc32c`.
- `<digest-value>`
  - : The digest in bytes of the message content using the `<digest-algorithm>`.
    The choice of digest algorithm also determines the encoding to use: `sha-512` and `sha-256` use {{Glossary("base64")}} encoding, while some legacy digest algorithms such as `unixsum` use a decimal integer.
    In contrast to earlier drafts of the specification, the standard base64-encoded digest bytes are wrapped in colons (`:`, ASCII 0x3A) as part of the [dictionary syntax](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8941#name-byte-sequences).

## Description

A `Digest` header was defined in previous specifications, but it proved problematic as the scope of what the digest applied to was not clear.
Specifically, it was difficult to distinguish whether a digest applied to the entire resource representation or to the specific content of a HTTP message.
As such, two separate headers were specified (`Content-Digest` and `Repr-Digest`) to convey HTTP message content digests and resource representation digests, respectively.

## Examples

> ### Client requests a SHA-256 Content-Digest

Reviewer: Client? User-Agent, Browser?

Author: I would change to user-agent here because no browser does this natively

Author: done in 3fb2b0fe883f5f50ce04c3f97a90e41dcac03f27

Reviewer: Thanks. I think it is more consistent across MDN to do it this way.

In the following request, a client requests a SHA-256 digest of the message content:

```http
GET /items/123 HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Want-Content-Digest: sha-256=10, sha=3
```

The server responds with a `Content-Digest` of the message content:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Digest: sha-256=:RK/0qy18MlBSVnWgjwz6lZEWjP/lF5HF9bvEF8FabDg=:

{"hello": "world"}
```

### Identical Content-Digest and Repr-Digest values

> A client requests a resource without a `Want-Content-Digest` field:

Reviewer: For client, I prefer browser if it is always a browser, and user-agent if it could reasonably mean a script. Obviously if you agree, change everywhere.

Author: > if it could reasonably mean a script. Obviously if you agree, change everywhere.

I think scripts / applications are the target implementation here, so I will change to user-agent

Author: done in 3fb2b0fe883f5f50ce04c3f97a90e41dcac03f27

```http
GET /items/123 HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
```

In this case, the server is configured to send unsolicited digest headers in responses.

> Both the `Repr-Digest` and `Content-Digest` fields have matching values:

Reviewer: Perhaps

```suggestion
The `Repr-Digest` and `Content-Digest` fields have matching values because they are using the same algorithm, and in this case the whole resource is sent in just one message.
```

Author: Looks good
